.Dd 2025-07-10
.Dt PAM_OKTA_AUTH 8
.Os pam_okta_auth 0.3.2
.Sh NAME
.Nm pam_okta_auth
.Nd PAM module for Okta
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pam_okta_auth.so
.Op Cm config_file= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Cm autopush
.Op Cm password_auth
.Op Cm try_first_pass
.Op Cm use_first_pass
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
authenticates users against the Okta authentication service.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm config_file= Ns Ar FILENAME
Specify a config file to load instead of
.Pa /etc/security/pam_okta_auth.toml
.It Cm autopush
Automatically initiate push verification instead of prompting for a passcode.
.It Cm password_auth
Perform primary authentication against Okta using a password.
The user may still be prompted to use an additional factor if the Okta
authentication policy requires one.
.It Cm try_first_pass
Try the password (if any) supplied to a prior module in the stack before
prompting for one.
.It Cm use_first_pass
Use the password supplied to a prior module in the stack instead of prompting
for one.
Primary authentication will fail if none is available.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm host
Okta tenant hostname (required)
.It Cm client_id
OAuth2 client ID (required)
.It Cm client_secret
OAuth2 client secret (required)
.It Cm bypass_groups
List of groups whose members are not required to provide a secondary factor.
This setting does not have an effect if primary authentication is enabled.
.It Cm debug
Boolean flag to enable increased log verbosity.
.It Cm http_proxy
URI of the proxy to use for requests.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Bl -item
.It
.Xr PAM 8
.It
.Xr pam.conf 5
.El
